
Passage I
PROSE FICTION: This passage is adapted from David Leavitt's novel Equal Affections (©1989  by David Leavitt).
Nine mysterious and crucial years separated April’s birth from Danny’s. This meant that when Danny was nine, his sister was eighteen and had lived twice as long in the world as he had. The difference 5 never seemed so vast, so insurmountable, as it did that magical year, for as they got older, nine years became less of a gulf and more of a bridge. Danny met and befriended people older than April all the time now, as peers, a fact the nine-year-old baby brother in him still 10 couldn’t help but. marvel at; when he was a child, she and her friends had seemed so immutably older than he was. Now people April’s age worked under him.
April and his parents had been a family long before he came along; they shared with each other elab-15 orate and entrenched rituals, masses of common history, so much that in his early childhood he was always having to ask questions: What is the house in this picture? Our old house, where we lived in Boston, when April was born. Who are these women holding babies? 20 That is your grandmother, who you never knew, holding your cousin Joanne. And that is your aunt Eleanor, holding your cousin Markie. And that is your mommy, holding your sister. He studied the photographs, memorizing the faces he would never see m real life, because 25 the people they belonged to were dead or had aged beyond the point of recognition. It was like homework, like memorizing the parts of the body or the capitals. But the pictures he paid closest attention to were the ones his parents had taken when April was a baby. 30 There were hundreds of them-ten or twenty taken on a single day, sometimes, marked and dated an d captioned, as if Louise and Nat had been under some sort of picture-taking enchantment; brought on by' the miracle of first birth. “11/22/52: Mommy giving April her 35 bottle.” “11/23/52: Daddy puts April in her bath.” Danny didn't know this energetic young couple, busily engaged in the rituals of. baby care, and yet there were his father’s ringed eyes and sharp nose on the face of that skinny boy; there was his mother’s slightly 40 upturned lip, her blazing dark eyes. What surprised him most was a sequence of picture’s taken on the beach. The color in these pictures had faded, and so the beach had a bleached, white 'aspect, the bright flowers on Louise’s bathing suit fading, as if at the end of their 45 season.
As April grew, as her unspecified baby face took on the familiar features of his sister, the gaps between when the pictures were taken grew as well, until instead of every day, it was every six months, and then every 50 year, at her birthday party. Then there were no dates. Then there were no more binders, just an old shoebox filled with snapshots. Very few pictures existed of Danny’s own babyhood, and when he once asked his mother why, she looked at him strangely and put her 55 hand on her forehead. “Oh, Danny,” she said, laughing a little. “I’m sorry.” He hadn’t, until that moment, thought of it as anything to apologize for.
When Danny was growing up, he had a red rubber ball he liked to bounce. After school, in the afternoon, 60 he’d walk for hours, bouncing this ball, spinning out in his head the plots of imaginary movies and television shows, and later, when April started singing, making up songs. She had told him that if he wrote a song good enough; she would sing it. But somehow it was always 65 someone else’s tune he came up with during those pre-dusk hours he spent outdoors, bouncing, bouncing. When he started college, that familiar, thunking beat was what Louise said she missed most; she couldn't stand the silence, she told Danny, and joked about 70 paying a neighborhood child to play handball against her garage. And later, when he was living in the East and went home for visits, he’d find the red ball waiting for him on his bed, and sometimes, when he had something to think through; he’d take it up and bounce it, 75 though it was soft where once it had been tight, and riddled with tiny, unsealable holes. Louise, doing the dishes or ironing, felt a rare peacefulness come over her as she listened to that familiar thumping of her son and his ball outside.
80 Danny remembered those hours bouncing the ball as ones of supreme contentment and security. He had a vision, sometimes, of Wall Street at rush hour, men in business suits, women in pastel-colored tennis shoes, but not hurrying as usual toward the subway; instead, 85 they are just shuffling along, bouncing, and in the world there is a sound like thunder as a thousand balls hit the pavement at once, fly again into the air, at once.
1. The mood of this passage can best be described as:
A. jubilant.         B. mournful.         C. contemplative.         D. apprehensive.
2. Which of the following statements is NOT supported by the passage?  .
F. Danny experienced a lonely childhood until he reached the age of nine.
G. Danny was born too late to know his grandmother and some other extended-family members.
H. Danny’s participation in some family rituals was limited primarily to looking at old photographs.
J. Danny’s visits home when he was living in the East could provide him time for reflection.
3. In the second paragraph (lines 13-45), the narrator primarily emphasizes Danny’s sense of:
A. estrangement from his mother.            B. rivalry with his older sister April.
C. anxiety about the cousins and grandparents that he has never met.
D. curiosity about what his extended family was like before he was born.
4. In the passage, the red rubber ball represents all of the following EXCEPT:
F. a young boy’s only friend while growing up.      G. an object that stimulates the imagination.
H. the link between a young man’s past and present.  J. a welcome distraction from silence.
5. The passage suggests that as Danny grew older, April became more:
A. comprehensible to him.         B. emotionally distant.  
C. dependent on her family.        D. vital to his success.
6. The narrator points out that studying the pictures “was like homework” (line 26) for Danny primarily to emphasize his:
F. lack of interest in sitting down with his mother every night to look at old family pictures.
G. intense desire to know where he fit in this larger extended family.
H. unpleasant experiences in school doing homework.
J. commitment to getting to know his extended-family members as fully as possible before he met them at the next reunion.
7. According to the passage, which of the following ultimately enables Danny to recognize the young couple pictured in some old pictures as Louise and Nat?
A. The presence of his grandmother and Aunt Eleanor in many of the same pictures
B. The couple’s animated gestures captured in the pictures
C. The names Markie and Joanne written on several of the old pictures
D. Some of his parents’ distinguishing physical characteristics
8. When Louise jokes with Danny “about paying a neighborhood child to play handball against her garage” (lines 69-71), she is most likely trying to tell Danny that she:
F. remembers the marks he made when he used to throw the handball against the garage.
G. thinks of him often as being more special than April when he was younger.
H. values the memory of that activity he engaged in while growing up and still at home.
J. longs for him to attend college closer to home so she can see him more often.
9. “Those hours bouncing the ball” (line 80) are said in the passage to take place during all of the following activities EXCEPT Danny’s:
A. after-school walks when he was growing up.      B. visits home when he lived in the East. 
C. predusk efforts to make up songs for April to sing. 
D. long walks while at college recalling the past.
10. According to the passage, while looking at his family’s old pictures; Danny’s moment of greatest surprise occurs when:
F. his attention is drawn to a series of beach pictures that are faded in color.
G. he recognizes April’s slightly upturned lip and blazing dark eyes.
H. he discovers a picture with the caption “Daddy puts April in her bath.”
J. Louise responds to one of his questions by saying, "That is your mommy holding you.”

