
Passage III
HUMANITIES: This passage is adapted from “An Emissary of the Between-World,” an interview by Katie Bacon with author Louise Erdrich (©2001 by The Atlantic Monthly Group). Erdrich, of French, German, and Ojibwe ancestry, is the author of several novels, two children’s books, and a memoir.
Bacon: Could you talk about the-role humor plays in Ojibwemowin, the language spoken by your mother’s tribe? And what about the role it plays in your fiction?
Erdrich: Ojibwemowin is a marvel; the more I know 5 the less I know I know. Words are constantly in a state of flux and invention, and a fluent speaker can inject humor into any subject or situation. For instance, a friend of mine in describing a baby’s frustration; over not being nursed combined nishka (angry) and. dodosh 10 (milk) to make a word that translates as “milk rage”—nishkadodosh. I’II always be a beginner in this language, as it is surely one of the most complex on earth. As for humor in my fiction, I hope it’s there. It’s impossible to write about Native life without humor—that’s 15 how people maintain sanity.
Bacon: How has learning Ojibwemowin changed the way you think about English?
Erdrich: For one thing, I’ve notic9d English is extremely gender-based. There is no his or her in 20 Ojibwe. English doesn’t have the flexibility of true spoken Ojibwe. Because it has been written and scrutinized and coded a person can’t (or people usually don’t) make up words right on the spot, as can happen easily in a language based on oral tradition. But English 25 is also a big, gobbling, greedy, thorny language, and a gift to writers because it absorbs all comers and yet retains its most ancient self.
Bacon: Do you feel any pressure to write about certain themes because people think of you as a Native Ameri-30 can writer? As more Native Americans have begun publishing books, do you feel freed in any way? Erdrich: Anything I, write about comes from inside and not outside pressure. Nothing works on paper unless I feel absolutely compelled to write it, and some of what 35 I write as a consequence may work politically and emotionally, or it simply may not.
I do feel pleased that many other Native people are writing books, extending the view of what a Native person is, and introducing the idea of tribal literature. 40 Not “Native” literature, but literature based in one tribal vision. For instance, Ojibwe literature is very different from Lakota, or Zuni, or Santa Clara Pueblo, or Ho-Chunk, or Mesquakie literature. Each is based in an extremely specific tradition, history, religion, 45 worldview.
Bacon: You return to the same characters over and over again, looking at their lives from different perspectives, telling their stories in different ways. Do your characters ever surprise you?
50 Erdrich: Yes, I am often surprised. I have no explanation for why my characters continue on with me beyond the fact of my own consciousness. It must contain these people—at all ages, in situation s that become accessible to me over time. Fifteen years isn’t long for a writer 55 to continue with her characters. I’m working on one big continuous novel anyway. All of the books are part of it.
Bacon: In your books you have written about love of God, of music, of land, of children, of culture, among 60 many other kinds. If one thing could be said to tie your work together, would it be the myriad forms of love?
Erdrich: I wouldn’t mind that being said, although one could also point out that the work is also tied together by the unity of place, or by the failure of love to solve 65 people’s lives, or by the  desperate wish to be back in our parents’ arms, or to be home, or by the dreadful and persistent longing to know why we are on earth.
Bacon: Do you see yourself as a “restorier” for the Ojibwe—a reclaimer of narratives that were never writ-70 ten down or were drowned out?
Erdrich: The Ojibwe have been telling stories through and in spite of immense hardship. In fact, Ojibwe narrative has grown rich and subtle on the ironies of conflict. But these are the narratives Ojibwe people tell among 75 themselves, and in Ojibwemowin. I wouldn’t even begin to think of myself as a “restorier” in that sense. I write in English, and so I suppose I function as an emissary of the between-world, that increasingly common margin where cultures mix and collide. That is in fact 80 where many of my stories occur:
Primarily, though, I am Just, a storyteller, and I take them where I find them. I love stories whether they function to reclaim old narratives or occur spontaneously. Often, to my surprise, they do both. I’ll follow 85 an inner thread of a plot and find that I am actually retelling a very old story, often in a contemporary. setting, I usually can’t recall whether it is something I remember hearing, or something I dreamed, or read, or imagined on the spot. It all becomes confused and then 90 the characters take over, anyway, and make the piece their own.
21. In her questions, Bacon presents herself as being most interested in:
A. Erdrich’s connections to her Ojibwe heritage and the reoccurring elements in her work.
B. the characteristics of Ojibwemowin and what Erdrich has learned from studying it.
C. the role of humor in modern fiction arid Erdrich’s evaluation of several prominent Native writers.
D. Erdrich’s tips for aspiring authors and the many challenges of being a Native writer.
22. With which of the following statements about her writing would Erdrich most likely agree?
F. It contains more references to gender than writing in English generally does.
G. It often develops in .ways that she did not originally foresee.
H. It remains tightly under her conscious control as it unfolds.
J. It has been profoundly reshaped by the work of younger Native writers.
23. Erdrich refers to “milk rage” (line 10) primarily to suggest that:
A. young children are particularly inventive with language.
B. concepts in Ojibwemowin can be hard to translate into English.
C. the nature of Ojibwemowin increases its ability to express humor.
D. humor is an important part of her fiction.
24. Based on the passage, Erdrich most nearly regards the concept of “Native literature” as:
F. inappropriate, because it suggests that all Native writers share a common perspective.
G. exciting, because it bas helped unite writers from many different tribes.
H. helpful, because it has encouraged m any other Native people to write books.
J. problematic, because it implies that such literature is not part of American literature.
25. When Bacon suggests that what ties Erdrich’s work together is “the myriad forms of love” (line 61), how does Erdrich respond?
A. She disagrees, since to her a sense of. place and home are more important unifying elements.
B. She disagrees, since love fails more often than it endures in her writings.
C. She agrees that this theme is present but suggests that other themes are equally important.
D. She agrees but argues that love as a theme has declined in importance in her later works.
26. By describing herself as “an emissary of the between-world” (lines 77-78), Erdrich is most likely implying that she:
F. is shifting from writing in English to writing in Ojibwemowin.
G. wants to translate traditional Ojibwe narratives into English.
H. hopes her writing will settle the cultural conflicts she sees around her.
J. writes about the intersecting of cultures, which she herself embodies.
27. The passage indicates that which of the following statements is true about Erdrich’s relationship with Ojibwemowin?
A. She has become a fluent speaker of it.      B. She considers herself a perpetual beginner in it.
C. She is gaining confidence in her ability to use it.  D. She yearns to understand the humor of it.
28. Erdrich states that humor is following'?
F. Raising babies   G. Maintaining sanity   H. Learning a language    J. Uniting a people
29. Based on the passage, Erdrich would most likely characterize her works of fiction as:
A. significantly interconnected.     B. intentionally controversial.
C. steadfastly modern.            D. wholly original.
30. Erdrich states that conflict has had which of the following effects on Ojibwe narrative?
F. Made it rich and subtle      G. Ironically diminished it       H. Drowned out some of it
J. Promoted its “restorying”

