Passage II
SOCIAL SCIENCE: This passage is adapted from Michael J.
Sandel’s article “America’s Search for a New Public Philosophy.” (©1996 by The Atlantic Monthly Company). The author argues that our current conception of democracy underlies many of our social and economic problems.
The central idea of the public philosophy by which we live is that freedom consists in our capacity to choose our ends for ourselves. Politics should not try to form the character or cultivate the virtue of its citizens, 5 for to do so would be to “legislate morality.” Government should not affirm, through its policies or laws, any particular conception of the good life; instead it should provide a neutral framework of rights within which people can choose their own values and ends.
10 The aspiration to neutrality finds prominent expression in our politics and law. Although it derives from the liberal tradition of political thought, its province is not limited to those known as liberals, rather than conservatives, in American politics; it can 15 be found across the political spectrum; Liberals invoke the ideal of neutrality when opposing school prayer or restrictions on abortion or attempts by certain groups to bring their morality into the public square. Conservatives appeal to neutrality when opposing attempts 20 by government to impose certain moral restraints-for the sake of workers’ safety or environmental protection or distributive justice-on the operation of the market economy.
The ideal of free choice also figures on both sides 25 0f the debate over the welfare state. Republicans have long complained that taxing the rich to pay for welfare programs for the poor is a form of coerced charity that violates people’s freedom to choose what to do with their own money. Democrats have long replied that 30 government must assure all citizens a decent level of income; housing, education, and health care, on the grounds that those who are crushed by economic necessity are not truly free to exercise choice in other domains. Despite their disagreement about how gov-35 ernment should act to respect individual choice, both sides assume that freedom consists in the capacity of people to choose their own ends.
So familiar is this vision of freedom that it might seem a permanent feature of the American political tra-40 dition. But as a reigning public philosophy, it is a recent arrival, a development of the past half century. Its distinctive character can best be seen by comparison with a. rival public philosophy that it gradually displaced: a version of republican political theory.
45 Central to republican theory is the idea that liberty depends on sharing in self-government. This idea is not by itself inconsistent with liberal freedom. Participating in politics can be one among the ways in which people choose to pursue their individual ends. According to 50 republican political theory, however, sharing in self-rule involves something more. It involves deliberating with fellow citizens about the common good and helping to shape the destiny of the political community. But to deliberate well about the common good requires 55 more than the capacity to choose one’s ends and to respect others’ rights to do the same. It requires a knowledge of public affairs and also a sense of belonging, a concern for the whole, a moral bond with the community whose fate is at stake. To share in self-60 rule therefore requires that citizens possess, or come to acquire, certain civic virtues. But this means that republican politics cannot be neutral toward the values and ends its citizens espouse. The republican conception of freedom, unlike the liberal conception, requires 65 a formative politics, a politics that cultivates in citizens the qualities of charact9r that self-government requires.
Both the liberal and the republican understandings of freedom have been present throughout our political experience, but in shifting measure and relative impor-70 tance. In recent decades the civic, or formative, aspect of our politics has given way to a procedural republic, concerned less with cultivating virtue than with enabling persons to choose their own values. This shift sheds light on our present discontent. For despite its 75 appeal, the liberal vision of freedom lacks the civic resources to sustain self-government. The public philosophy by which we live cannot secure the liberty it promises, because it cannot inspire the sense of community and civic engagement that liberty requires.
11. Which of the following offers the best description of republican political theory as it is defined in this passage?
A. Citizens should be able to choose their own values, and should respect others’ right to do the same.
B. Citizens need to participate in politics and to care for their community in order to enjoy true liberty.
C. Citizens need to be neutral about their values and beliefs in order that others not be offended.
D. Citizens must understand that choosing their own values is inconsistent with liberal freedom.
12. According to the passage, in order for citizens to “deliberate well about the common good” (line 54) citizens must possess all of the following EXCEPT:
F. knowledge of public affairs.        G. a neutral framework of. rights.
H. concern for fellow citizens.        J. a sense of Civic engagement.
13. The main point of the second paragraph (lines 10-23) is that:
A. liberals and conservatives have essentially the same value systems.
B. liberals and conservatives find governmental neutrality appealing for different reasons.
C. conservatives are more interested in the nation’s economy than are liberals.
D. liberals are responsible for the idea that the U.S. government should be neutral.
14. The main point of the fifth paragraph (lines 45-66) is that:
F. liberal and republican theories each demand that citizens take part in politics.
G. liberal and republican theories each have their good points and their bad points.
H. republican politicians tend to be more virtuous and compassionate than liberal politicians.
J. republican theory requires that citizens demonstrate a concern for the common good.
15. As it is used in line 65, the phrase formative politics refers to a type of politics that: 
A. promotes important civic virtues.        B. is consistent with liberal freedom.
C. is part of a procedural republic.         D. is distinct from self-rule.
16. If the last paragraph were deleted, what critical piece information would be lost?
F. What the author sees as the features that distinguish between procedural and liberal republics
G. What the author sees as the centerpiece of republican political theory
H. What the auth or sees as the central weakness of our current public philosophy
J. What the author sees as the difference between liberal and republican political theories
17. As it is used in lines 68-69, the phrase political experience most nearly means:
A. country’s history.     B. voting patterns.    C. presidential campaigns    D. elective office
18. The main point being made in lines 10-15 is that:
F. a belief in citizens’ rights to choose their own values is shared by people with different politics.
G. liberals and conservatives can be found across the political spectrum.
H. the aspiration to neutrality is guaranteed by the Constitution and supported by republican theory.
J. the liberal tradition in American politics is some-what limited in its theoretical background.
19. The last paragraph most strongly suggests that a “procedural republic” is a republic:
A. known for having good political procedures.       B. that has developed a formative politics.
C. based upon many rules and regulations.           D. with a neutral framework of rights.
20. The author of the passage claims that the liberal vision of freedom cannot provide liberty because that vision:
F: gives citizens too many choices to consider.   
G. does not teach citizens to care about community.
H. inspires moral neutrality, which is antigovernment.
J. depends too heavily on the concept of legislating morality.

