
Passage III
HUMANITIES: This passage is adapted from “Borderline” by Kathleen Norris ( 1995 by Kathleen Norris).
Since my book Dakota became a surprise best-seller, I’ve received thousands of letters responding to it. Along with the reviews, these responses have been, for the most part, positive, and often so enthusiastic 5 that I wonder if the person has read the same book that I wrote. I was enormously relieved, then, to receive the following from my sister Becky: “How are you? Everyone here talks about you and your book. I feel left out. I tried to read it, but it was boring.”
10 Not for the first time in our forty-two-year relationship, my sister Becky had acted as a kind of amma for me, a desert mother who challenges my complacency, and allows me to see the world (and myself) in a new light. I was reminded of a saying by Amma 15 Synclectica, a desert monastic of fourth-century Egypt: “Just as it is impossible to be at the same moment a plant and a seed, so it is impossible for us to be surrounded by worldly honor and at the same time to bear heavenly fruit.”
20 Synclectica sums up, I believe, the difficulty writers have in America in surviving success: to keep bearing fruit, one must keep returning, humbly, to the blank page and not pay much heed to the “noted author” the world wants you to be. Becky’s letter was a 25 godsend. Reading it over, I laughed myself silly, and found myself released from much of the tension induced by sudden notoriety and too much literary hoo-ha.
Becky’s life has been a kind of desert. When she 30 was born, the doctors gave my mother too strong a dose of sedative. Having already given birth to two children, she knew something was wrong. Precious oxygen was lost. My sister’s brain was irreversibly damaged.
Becky is diagnosed as “borderline.” She is intelligent 35 enough to comprehend what happened to her when she was born. She is not intelligent enough to do mathematical computation. A tutor my parents hired when Becky was about ten years old told us that Becky could grasp a concept long enough to work out several problems 40 in the course of an hour-long session, but that by the next week she’d have forgotten what she’d learned and have to start from scratch. Her elementary schools were just passing her along; there were no “special ed” programs then, and no one knew what to do with her, 45 where she belonged. Beck’s life has been lonely in ways that most of us could not comprehend.
Our parents decided when Becky was very young that she didn’t belong in an institution, but with us. I believe that being raised with myself and a brother, 50 both older, and one younger sister was good for Becky; I know it was good for me. Very early on, I had to learn to respect Becky’s intelligence, although it was very different from mine. I also came to respect her tenacity.
When I was in high school I began to discover 55 how much my sister and I had in common. We were both in difficult situations－I was a shy, ungainly newcomer at a school where many of the students had been together since kindergarten, and Becky had a particularly unsympathetic teacher. On coming home from 60 school, she’d immediately go to her room and play rock music while she danced around her room (and sometimes on her bed). She talked to herself, incessantly and loudly. The family accepted all this as something Becky needed to do.
65 One day, as Becky carried on her usual “conversations,” with her teacher, with other girls in her class, with a boy who’d made fun of her, I was doing homework in the room next door and realized that I, too, needed release from daily tensions, a way to daydream 70 through the failed encounters and make them come out right. Usually, I lost myself in reading or practicing the flute, but sometimes I listened to music and imagined great careers for myself, great travels, great loves. I didn’t have the nerve to stomp around my room and 75 yell, as my sister was doing, but our needs were the same.
We were both struggling with our otherness, although I suspect I did not know this then. Now that I’m a writer, it’s clear to me. Rejection comes to 80 everyone, of course, but for those who are markedly different from their peers, it is a daily reminder of that difference. To most people, my sister and I didn’t seem to have much in common; but I knew from that day on that we were remarkably alike.
85 If nothing else, this insight helped me to survive my new school. I knew that getting a C was not the worst thing in the world. And when I got an A, I could put it in perspective. I knew there were other kinds of intelligence that were just as valuable; needs that could 90 not be satisfied in school.
21. One of the main points the narrator makes in this passage is that:
A. rejection is a normal part of high school life.
B. there should be “special education” programs in every school.
C. she and her sister had a similar need for acceptance.
D. nearly everyone has an amma to give him or her advice.
22. As depicted in the passage, the narrator’s attitude toward literary success is best described by which of the following statements?
F. Receiving praise for literary success indicates creativity and is a worthy goal to pursue.
G. The opinions of family and friends are helpful to authors but not a true measure of literary success.
H. Receiving praise for literary success can have a negative effect on one’s writing.
J. Noted authors deserve the public’s respect because they endure considerable hardship in order to be successful.
23. The narrator’s reaction to Becky’s assessment of the book Dakota reveals that the narrator:
A. wishes she had Beck’s love.  B. did not understand Becky’s critique.
C. has a healthy sense of humor.  D. does not agree with Becky.
24. As it is used in line 77, the word otherness refers to the narrator’s and Becky’s:
F. fondness for each other.  G. foreign origin.
H. need to be alone.  J. feelings of isolation.
25. The narrator claims that Becky “acted as a kind of amma” (line 11) because:
A. Becky’s criticism allowed the narrator to reassess herself at a time when that was what she needed.
B. the role Becky most often assumed in the family was as a spiritual guide during times of crisis.
C. after reading Becky’s assessment of her book, the narrator was determined to write books Becky would like.
D. unlike most readers, both Becky and Amma Synclectica found the book Dakota boring.
26. In the saying quoted in lines 16－19, Amma Synclectica advises people to be:
F. humble.  G. tolerant.  H. fair.  J. intelligent.
27. It can most reasonably be inferred that the narrator’s own version of bearing what Amma Synclectica called “heavenly fruit” (line 19) would be to:
A. follow her instincts above all.  B. write high-quality literature.
C. be accepted and honored by her peers.  D. continue to be praised by literary reviewers.
28. It can most reasonably be inferred that the narrator compares Becky’s life to a desert in line 29 as a way of describing Becky’s:
F. need for honesty.  G. dry sense of humor.
H. consistent hopefulness.  J. ongoing loneliness.
29. The sixth paragraph (lines 47－53) reveals that the narrator is:
A. thoughtful, naïve, and nostalgic.  B. secure, affectionate, and ironic.
C. open-minded, accepting, and grateful.  D. aware, respectful, and tenacious.
30. Becky’s method of coping with difficulty was similar to the narrator’s method in that both girls:
F. carried on pretend conversations with each other.
G. acted unconcerned about what others thought of them.
H. relied on their parents and siblings for advice.
J. used their imagination to make themselves feel better.

