
Passage IV
NATURAL SCIENCE: This passage is adapted from “Were Dinosaurs Cold Blooded?” by Brendan J. Koerner ( 1997 by U.S. News and World Report Inc.). Warm-blooded creatures maintain a nearly constant body temperature under most conditions.
The claim that dinosaurs were warm blooded has divided the paleontological world into rival camps. For some, endothermy, the scientific name for warm bloodedness, is the only way to explain the dinosaurs’ evolutionary 5 success. Without the ability to keep their bodies at optimum temperatures regardless of their surroundings, they argue, dinosaurs could never have dominated the globe for 160 million years. Skeptics counter that ectothermy, the proper label for cold bloodedness, was 10 the logical strategy for dinosaurs living in the Mesozoic Era’s generally sweltering heat－and, this group claims, the only option that is supported by physiological, rather than circumstantial, evidence.
The revisionist view that has so captured the 15 public imagination has long been led by Robert Bakker, a crusader against slow-moving, dimwitted, crocodilian dinosaurs. He painted a picture of dinosaurs that were every bit as endothermic as humans. Instead of spending their days lazily basking in the sun and occasionally 20 trudging along at a torpid pace, Bakker’s dinosaurs moved at constant speeds, their postures fully erect in the manner of birds and mammals. “Meateating dinosaurs related to Tyrannosaurus rex cruised at 3 to 4 miles an hour,” claims Bakker, who bases his 25 conclusion on fossilized footprints. “No turtle anywhere cruises at 3 to 4 miles an hour.”
Bakker and his acolytes also point to dinosaurs relatively fast growth as evidence of endothermy. Mammals and birds, which develop quickly compared 30 with ectothermic reptiles, have bones characterized by microscopic channels that apper complex and crystallike under the microscope. These elegant patterns form when growing bone meets and meshes with connective tissue, capturing blood vessels in dense, woven structures 35 called Haversian canals. Armand de Ricqlè’s, a University of Paris anatomist, found that dinosaur bones exhibited those same intricate channels rather than the simpler, less dense structures common to reptiles. “We see the same well-vascularized bone in mammals 40 but not in turtles and crocodiles,” says Kevin Padian, a paleontologist at the University of California-Berkeley. “The way the bones grew, dinosaurs seem to have been active all the time.” That pace of activity, argue Bakker and his cohorts, is the telltale sign of 45 warm bloodedness.
Many within the scientific community remain wary of Bakker’s claims. Since measurements show that endotherms require up to 20 times more food than ectotherms, some question how the gigantic dinosaurs 50 could possibly have eaten enough if they were warm blooded.
The evidence based on bone structures has come under fire, too. Tomasz Owerkowicz, a Harvard University researcher, has asserted that the dense canals 55 that de Ricqles detected could have resulted from physical exertion rather than endothermy. In an ingenious experimept, Owerkowicz gave cold-blooded monitor lizards regular treadmill workouts and then compared their bones with those of nonaerobicized contemporaries. 60 The well-exercised group showed the same kind of complex channels characteristic of mammals, birds, and de Ricqle’s dinosaurs, suggesting that Haversian canals are causally linked to an active Jifestyle rather than warm bloodedness. South African histologist 65 Anusuya Chinsamy has also countered some of the bone structure argument, contending that dinosaur bones exhibit bands called lines of arrested growth. These are characteristic of modern-day ectotherms, whose growth rate speeds up and slows down according 70 to seasonal temperature fluctuations. Chinsamy concluded that dinosaurs grew at a more reptilian pace than envisioned by the Bakkerites.
The ectothermic side has sought to boost its case with hard physiological evidence. Turbinates, tiny 75 whisps of bone or cartilage deep inside the nasal cavities of mammals and birds, make warm bloodedness possible by limiting water loss. Turbinates have never been found in living ectotherms－nor in dinosaurs.
Many on the cold-blooded side now use the term 80 “gigantothermy” to describe the unique energetics of large dinosaurs. Being huge is one way to maintain a relatively constant body temperature despite cold bloodedness: Large things－which have a lot of bulk in relation to their skin area－lose heat to the outside 85 world much more slowly than do small things. If dinosaurs were indeed cold blooded, the slow heat loss associated with gigantothermy would allow them to stay relatively warm－and avoid a reptilian torpor－when confronted by the night or an overcast day.
31. The function of the information provided in the passage’s last four paragraphs (lines 46－89) is primarily to:
A. provide a counterpoint to the theories advanced by Bakker and his revisionist-minded colleagues.
B. disclose information about turbinates that undermines the theories put forward by Padian and Bakker.
C. show that Haversian canals have a wholly different purpose and origin than de Ricqlès thought.
D. make clear the importance of the research done by Chinsamy and Owerkowicz.
32. Which of the following questions best addresses the main point of the first paragraph?
F. Why were dinosaurs able to dominate the globe for 160 million years?
G. When did the paleontological world divide into two rival groups?
H. Why are some paleontologists skeptical about ectothermy?
J. Were dinosaurs endothermic or ectothermic?
33. It can reasonably be inferred that the word acolytes, as it is used in line 27, refers to paleontologists who:
A. disagree with Bakker’s theories.  B. share Bakker’s revisionist views.
C. have mixed feelings about Bakker’s work.  D. think dinosaurs were ectothermic.
34. It is clear from the third paragraph (lines 27－45) that Haversian canals can only be viewed:
F. by scientists.  G. in dinosaurs.  H. by Bakkerites.  J. through a microscope.
35. It can reasonably be inferred from the fifth paragraph (lines 52－72) that the description of Owerkowicz’s work functions in the passage as a whole to:
A. demonstrate that de Ricqlès did not find Haversian canals in the dinosaurs he studied.
B. present an alternative explanation of how the dinosaurs’ Haversian canals might have developed.
C. explain what caused ectothermic dinosaurs to evolve differently from endothermic dinosaurs.
D. illustrate the way in which reptiles could be made to perform in ingenious experiments.
36. The research by Chinsamy cited in lines 64－72 serves which of the following purposes?
F. It enhances the findings of de Ricqlès.
G. It contradicts the theories of Owerkowicz.
H. It lends support to the theories of Owerkowicz.
J. It augments the theories of Bakker and his associates.
37. The fact cited in lines 77－78 is most consistent with the ideas about dinosaurs attributed to which of the following scientists?
A. Chinsamy  B. Padian  C. Bakker  D. de Ricqlès
38. The passage states that the growth rate of modern ectotherms is directly related to which of the following?
F. Their food  G. Habitat plants  H. Seasonal temperature  J. Their size
39. The sixth paragraph (lines 73－78) indicates that turbinates are found in all of the following EXCEPT:
A. birds.  B. mammals.  C. endotherms.  D. ectotherms.
40. As it is used in the last paragraph, the term gigantothermy most nearly means that the:
F. larger the dinosaur, the easier it is for the dinosaur to be endothermic.
G. larger the dinosaur, the easier it is for the dinosaur to retain body heat.
H. smaller the dinosaur, the more likely that that dinosaur will be ectothermic.
J. smaller the dinosaur, the more likely it will exist in a perpetual state of reptilian torpor.

